# MODEL1006230092: Grandi2009_VentricularMyocyte

## Installation

Download this repository, and install with distutils

`python setup.py install`

Or, install using pip

`pip install git+https://github.com/biomodels/MODEL1006230092.git`

To install a specific version (in this example, from the 2014-09-16 BioModels release)

`pip install git+https://github.com/biomodels/MODEL1006230092.git@20140916`


# Model Notes


This a model from the article:  
**A novel computational model of the human ventricular action potential and Ca transient.**   
Grandi E, Pasqualini FS, Bers DM. _J Mol Cell Cardiol_ 2010 Jan;48(1):112-21
[19835882](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19835882) ,  
**Abstract:**   
We have developed a detailed mathematical model for Ca handling and ionic
currents in the human ventricular myocyte. Our aims were to: (1) simulate
basic excitation-contraction coupling phenomena; (2) use realistic
repolarizing K current densities; (3) reach steady-state. The model relies on
the framework of the rabbit myocyte model previously developed by our group,
with subsarcolemmal and junctional compartments where ion channels sense
higher [Ca] vs. bulk cytosol. Ion channels and transporters have been modeled
on the basis of the most recent experimental data from human ventricular
myocytes. Rapidly and slowly inactivating components of I(to) have been
formulated to differentiate between endocardial and epicardial myocytes.
Transmural gradients of Ca handling proteins and Na pump were also simulated.
The model has been validated against a wide set of experimental data including
action potential duration (APD) adaptation and restitution, frequency-
dependent increase in Ca transient peak and [Na](i). Interestingly, Na
accumulation at fast heart rate is a major determinant of APD shortening, via
outward shifts in Na pump and Na-Ca exchange currents. We investigated the
effects of blocking K currents on APD and repolarization reserve: I(Ks) block
does not affect the former and slightly reduces the latter; I(K1) blockade
modestly increases APD and more strongly reduces repolarization reserve; I(Kr)
blockers significantly prolong APD, an effect exacerbated as pacing frequency
is decreased, in good agreement with experimental results in human myocytes.
We conclude that this model provides a useful framework to explore excitation-
contraction coupling mechanisms and repolarization abnormalities at the single
myocyte level. Copyright 2009 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

This model was taken from the [CellML
repository](http://www.cellml.org/models) and automatically converted to SBML.  
The original model was: [ **Grandi E, Pasqualini FS, Bers DM. (2009) -
version=1.0**
](http://models.cellml.org/exposure/04607be1c287225d1fd6cb8a031ee928)  
The original CellML model was created by:  
**Geoffrey Nunns**   
gnunns1@jhu.edu  
The University of Auckland  

This model originates from BioModels Database: A Database of Annotated
Published Models (http://www.ebi.ac.uk/biomodels/). It is copyright (c)
2005-2011 The BioModels.net Team.  
To the extent possible under law, all copyright and related or neighbouring
rights to this encoded model have been dedicated to the public domain
worldwide. Please refer to [CC0 Public Domain
Dedication](http://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/) for more
information.

In summary, you are entitled to use this encoded model in absolutely any
manner you deem suitable, verbatim, or with modification, alone or embedded it
in a larger context, redistribute it, commercially or not, in a restricted way
or not..  
  
To cite BioModels Database, please use: [Li C, Donizelli M, Rodriguez N,
Dharuri H, Endler L, Chelliah V, Li L, He E, Henry A, Stefan MI, Snoep JL,
Hucka M, Le Nov√®re N, Laibe C (2010) BioModels Database: An enhanced, curated
and annotated resource for published quantitative kinetic models. BMC Syst
Biol., 4:92.](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20587024)


